So let's demonstrate how this works.
So I'm going to do a simulation,
where I have a 100 observations and
I'm going to generate three predictors,
x, x2, and x3.
And they are all just standard normals.
And my y is going to be an intercept,
which I'm setting to 1 + x + x2 + x3.
So all my coefficients
are theoretically 1.
So the population model used for
simulation, they're all 1.
And then I'm gonna add some random noise,
that's the error term.
So let me get my residual for y.
Having regressed out x2 and x3.
And remember, lm, by default,
contains an intercept.
So, resid takes the residual.
And then, let's do the same thing for x.
And remember, lm takes an intercept.
So this is the regression of x with x2 and
x3, and an intercept removed.
And then I'm gonna get
the regression through the origin
estimate with these two residuals.
And that's 0.11053.
And I can also show this with lm,
because I can do lm,
the residual y is the residual x, but
I have to take out the intercept.
And, let me get the coef, the coefficient,
should just be the one number now,
and show you that it,
is it exactly the same thing.
But now, what I wanted to point out,
is that this coefficient is the same
coefficient as if I regress y on x,
x2 and x3, and an intercept.
There you go.
And you see the x term right
here is exactly the same as
the regression through the origin
estimate with the residuals.
So again, that just goes to show
you the way we interpret, or
the way in which linear models
adjust the regression estimate
with respect to the other variable.
It's sort of like the effect of the other
variable has been removed from both
the predictor and the response.
So let's go through how you interpret
regression coefficients with respect to
the model right now.
And then again in the next lecture,
we're gonna go over specific
contextual examples.
So, our regression predictor, given
that our collection of covariants take
a specific value, x1 to xp, is just the
sum of the x's times their coefficients.
Right?
That's our linear model.
Well, just think if one of
those regression coefficients,
let's just take in specific,
the first one, is incremented by 1.
Right?
So, instead of taking the value x1,
it takes the value x1 + 1.
Well then that's just
the same equation but
that first one is now
X1 + 1 rather than X1.
So if I were to subtract these
two terms they expective value of
the response where the first co efficient
takes the value of x1 +1 minus
the expectant value of the response.
Where the collection of coefficients
are just the x1 to xp values.
Then you'll see that that
works out to be beta1.
So, notice all these other x2 to xp
were held fixed in all my discussion.
So x2 to xp were held fixed, and
x1 was incremented by one unit,
whatever the units of x1 is.
So the interpretation of
a multi-variable regression coefficient
is it's the expected
change in the response for
a unit change in a regressor but
holding all the other ones constant.
That's the essential part of
interpreting a multi-variable regression
relationship is it's holding
the other ones constant.
And that way it also, the interpretation
you can think of as being adjusting for
the other variables, because we have
to hold the other variables constant.
So again, in the next lecture,
we're gonna go over a bunch of
different contextual examples.
But that's the mathematics behind
the interpretation right there.
And then I'm just gonna go right
now through a laundry list of
the basic components of the linear model.
Because they're just exactly the same
as in simple linear regression.
And so remember,
if our linear model is our outcome line,
it's just now instead of a simple linear
regression, it's the sum of a bunch of
predictors times their coefficients plus
an error term, and we're gonna assume that
error term is normally distributed,
we get a bunch of properties.
And so we're gonna just ripple
through these properties and then I
think when you go to the examples you'll
internalize them a little bit better.
But these should all be pretty familiar
cuz they're basically the same as what we
did for linear aggression just now we're
plugging in some more coefficients.
So our fitted response for
example y had any of these specific value,
is just plugging the fitted
coefficients times
those specific regressers whether that's
a new value or one of the observed values.
The residuals is just the fitted value Y
had being subtracted
from the observed value.
We're trying to minimize.
Is the sum of the squared residuals.
The variance estimate is just
the average squared residuals.
We're just like, remember,
in our linear regression case,
we divide it by n- 2,
now we divide by n- p.
And that's kind of a technical
point because if you know
n- p of the residuals the last p of
them due to some linear constraints.
So that's why we divide by N- P we don't
really have N residuals we have SPM,
but that's a minor point you can think
of the residuals variants estimate
is nothing other than
the average square residuals for
the most part that N- P
part not withstanding.
A predicted response and
some new values just,
we're plugging them into the linear model.
If we have a new x1 to xp,
we multiply them each by their
respective coefficients and add them up
and that's our new predicted response.
Our coefficients have standard errors,
sigma beta hat, let's say, for
sigma beta 1 hat, for beta 1 sigma beta
2 hat through beta 2 and we can test for
whether or not specific coefficients are
a 0 with a T test because those, the beta
hat minus its true value divided by the
standard error follows the T distribution.
So all the things we knew about
from linear regression carryover
to multi variable regression.
In addition, predicted responses have
standard errors and we can calculate
prediction and prediction intervals just
like we did in linear regression again.
So again, I'm hoping that none of these.
Facts are kinda news to you it's almost
identical to what we did in simple
linear aggression we
just have more terms now.
And remember in linear aggression we
had two terms, we had an intercept and
a covariant now we're just adding
more covariants potentially.
I wanna add this this lecture before
we move onto some specific examples.
I wanna end this lecture
with just a general
discussion of how important linear
models are to the data scientist.
Before you do any machine learning or
any complex algorithm,
linear models should
be your first attempt.
They offer parsimonious and well
understood easily describe relationships
between predictors and response.
Now, to be fair some modern
machine learning algorithms
can beat some of the things,
like the imposed linearity.
Nonetheless, linear models should
always be your starting point.
And there's some amazing things you can
do with linear models that you may not.
Just from this first treatment
of them from this one lecture,
think about the things
that will be possible.
For example, you can take a time
series like a music sound or
something like that, and decompose
it into its harmonics, the so-called
discrete Fourier transform can be thought
of the as the fit from a linear model.
You can flexibly fit rather
complicated functions and curves and
things like that using linear models.
You can fit factor variables as
predictors, anova is a special case of
linear models, and
kova is a special case of linear models.
You can uncover complex multivariate
relationships within a response and
you can build fairly
accurate prediction models.